A C program is made up of one or more functions. Functions are classified into 2 types, they are Library functions and User-defined functions.

Built–in functions are predefined functions, supplied along with the compiler and these can be used in any C program. They are also known as library functions and all these functions are available in C library.

Some of the examples of library functions are scanf(), printf(), gets(), sqrt() and so on.

The functions defined by the users are called as user-defined functions. The main() function is an example of user-defined function because the code with in the main() is written by the user.


Let us consider the following code

#include <stdio.h>
#include <math.h>
void main() {
    int x;
    float y;
    printf("Enter the value : ");
    scanf("%d", &x);
    y = sqrt(x);
    printf ("The square root of %d is : %f", x, y);
}

Here main() is user-defined function and printf(), scanf(), sqrt() are library functions.

The main() function invokes other functions with in it viz. printf(), scanf(), and sqrt().

Here main() is calling function and remaining are known as called functions.

A function that invokes another function is known as calling function. A function which is invoked by another function is known as called function. A called function may be a calling function for another function.

// Notes 2

User-defined functions are the functions which are defined by the user at the time of writing program.

Functions are made for code re-usability and for saving time and space.

In C, main() is the user-defined function and first calling function in any program.

main() is a special function which tells the compiler to start the execution of a C program from the beginning of the function main().

It is not possible to have more than one main() function because the compiler will not know where to start the execution in such a situation.

An identifier other than keywords followed by parenthesis is recognized as a function name by the compiler.

To make use of the user-defined function the programmer must be able to know the following 3 concepts.
Define a Function (or) Function Definition
Function Prototype (or) Function Declaration
Calling a Function (or) Invoke a Function
A function definition describes what a function does, how its actions are achieved and how it is used. It consists of a function header and a function body.


The general format of defining a function is
return_type function_name(parameters list) {
    //Local variable declarations
    //Executable statements
    return(expression);
}
The first line which heads the function is known as function header. The function header should not end with a semicolon (;) in defining a function.

The function body follows the function header and it is always enclosed in braces. The body of the function is combination of local variable declarations and executable statements.

Here the statements describe the actions to be performed by the function. The body of function definition is also known as a block or compound statement.

The elements specified within the parenthesis of the function name are known as parameters or arguments.

